building backlinks is a pain wouldn't it
be great if there was an easier way to
build links
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm gonna break down a new way to build
links
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
so the first thing i want you to do is
go to neilpatel.com
backlinks
and or you can just google backlink
checker neil patel and you'll see it
and when you go to this page i want you
to put in your own url so i'm going to
put in neilpatel.com
and it takes me to ubersuggest
it takes me the backlinks report where i
can see how many links i have but then
what i want you to do is go to this new
report which is the backlink opportunity
report
so i'm going to put in neilpatel.com
and i'm going to select domain it's
already selected then i'm going to put
in a few of my competitors like moz.com
and click the plus button
and put in maybe search engine land
click the plus button maybe even search
engine
journal
dot com click the plus button
so what this report does before i click
search
it shows you all the people who link to
your competitors and don't link to you
the reason this is important is if you
go out there and you do a ton of
outreach and let's say you hit up a ton
of websites out there on the web and you
just try to get links
well if most those websites don't link
to anyone in your space you or your
competition what do you think the
chances are that they're going to link
to you
slim to none
but on the flip side
if there's hundreds if not thousands of
websites that link to tons of your
competitors even two or three of them
what's the chances that they'll link to
you
very high for example if mozilla here
links to moz searching journal and
search engine land there's a good chance
if i do outreach to them i can probably
get them to link back to me not always
but some cases and you can see what url
specifically when you click the drop
down link to your competitors and i can
see it here with this line.me and i can
just keep going down this one's teed on
me i think that's twitter short you are
all short and i could be wrong on that
one here's w3.org
good opportunities there
here's one wikimedia a lot of good
opportunities there
yahoo would love a link from there
um but that's the overall point right if
you see a lot of people linking to your
competition you can typically get them
to link to you as well and you can
actually base it off a specific url as
well like this url here links to three
of my competitors this url here links to
three of my competitors
and you can do that and by looking at
the specific urls you'll be like all
right if someone's leaning to multiple
my competitors like this amazon
affiliate page i have tons of articles
on affiliate marketing that i could
probably hit up amazon be like hey would
you be interested in linking to me as
well
this strategy is one of the easiest ways
to build links
now when you go to one of these sites
and you're trying to build links like
let's say i go to
i don't know i'm gonna end up pulling
you know
w3.org right and in a new tab it's
pulling w3
um
and it's a slideshow presentation i'm
going to go back to view
uh show
[Music]
urls show
toolbar
all right so
you know if i'm like all right i want w3
to link out to me you can use a cool
site called hunter.io
which is free and you can like type in
any domain name you just have to
register it'll tell you they found tons
of people's email addresses and they'll
give them to you all you have to do is
click find but you can end up getting a
lot of emails for free every month 25
searches so that's great and i would
just go through this and i would start
finding more and more emails and what's
really cool with this strategy is you
can get super specific
and here's an example for this so i'm
going to type in the keyword seo
as you can see i rank on page one in the
united states but i don't rank number
one i only rank on page one moz ranks
ahead of me so i'm gonna end up loading
up that email or url here's one from
search engine land here's one from
wikipedia and then you got the one from
neilpatel.com so if you look at this
article it's on an introduction to seo
beginner's guide right
this one is introduction to seo as well
like what is seo how does it work
this one's similar search engine
optimization what is is the definition
the history
mine
intro as well so they're all very
similar
so now what i want you to do is you take
your url so i'm going to take my
and i'm going to pop it here
so put in enter your domain or url
change the type from domain to url so
you can see exactly who's linking to
your url
uh and then i would do the same for my
competition so then i'm gonna go to this
moz one let me click the x's here
and i'm gonna end up putting url so i
want to see
the moz url and who links to them but
who doesn't link to me
i'll do the same with search engine
journal
make sure you select url
then i'm going to end up clicking on the
wikipedia one
and that's it so when i click and run
this report
it's going to do a search to see who's
linking to my competition but not me
again if a website or multiple websites
link to
competitor articles that are very
similar like theirs is all about the
introduction to seo or what is seo
and they don't link to me this is great
like i look here all right this
developer.apple.com swift blog links to
the wikipedia and the mazda beginner
guide itunes links to both of them as
well uh google support
you know and it keeps going on and on
and on and this is showing me who's
linking all to my competition but not me
this one links about search engine land
moz wikipedia this is a great one
and this article is
i'm going to load it up here
how to scale your content and marketing
for international traffic
right this article no longer exists
uh i'm gonna
scroll down a little bit more
w3
right so i can go head up this uh the
person who wrote this one
um and try to hit someone up at the w3
website try to get them to add a link
also to my website
um let's see and
i'm going to keep scrolling looking for
more options
here's one on uh issue is s uu blog
top publishing trends of 2020. i can hit
them up as well i try to get them to
link to me
and as i go through this you know you
can keep going through and you'll find a
lot of people linked to your competition
but not you but the reason i like using
this one and going back up this one
gives you specific
people who are linking to a specific
article not just a domain but an article
so if you have multiple players linking
to a competitor's article and it's very
similar to yours but yours is more
in-depth and more updated you can
outreach to them like i may say hey john
i notice you link to moz and
searchingland or wikipedia when it comes
to you know overview on seo but you know
what ai and seo is a really booming
topic and none of them really cover that
but when you go to all the conferences
everyone's talking about that um check
out this article and not only take
breaks down the you know introduction
and the basics seo but also breaks on
how people can leverage uh seo ai to use
that to increase their rankings over
time i think your readers will love it
cheers neil and when you do stuff like
that you'll get more targeted links and
the overall goal is if you're emailing
out 100 people and you're getting very
specific very customizes your email
you're using these strategies you should
aim for 15 plus links it's super super
effective it's a great way to increase
your rankings if you have any questions
on how you can leverage this tactic if
you're confused in any way leave a
comment below i'm here to help you out
if you just want my agency to do
everything for you check out np digital
i hope you like the video share it tell
the people about it thank you for
watching